{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs26 \cf0 In this project you will implement a simulation of an ocean containing sharks\
and fish.  You will also write code to convert an ocean into a run-length\
encoding and back.  The ocean is rectangular, but the edges are connected\
together in a topological donut or torus.  This means that the top (North) and\
bottom (South) edges are considered adjacent, so if you start at the top edge\
and go up, you'll be at the bottom edge (just like in the video game\
Asteroids).  Similarly, the East and West edges are connected (just like in\
Pac Man).  The ocean is divided into square cells, which are indexed as follows\
(for a 4x3 ocean):\
\
                         ------> x\
\
                     |   -----------------------------\
                     |   | 0, 0 | 1, 0 | 2, 0 | 3, 0 |\
                   y |   -----------------------------\
                     |   | 0, 1 | 1, 1 | 2, 1 | 3, 1 |\
                     v   -----------------------------\
                         | 0, 2 | 1, 2 | 2, 2 | 3, 2 |\
                         -----------------------------\
\
Note that the origin is in the upper left; the x-coordinate increases as you\
move right, and the y-coordinate increases as you go down.  (This conforms to\
Java's graphics commands, though you won't need to use them directly in this\
project.)  You can also refer to locations such as (4, 0) or (-4, 3), which are\
both the same as (0, 0) in a 4x3 ocean.  (More generally, the coordinates in\
an ixj ocean are taken modulo i for the x-coordinate, which is horizontal, and\
modulo j for the y-coordinate, which is vertical.)  Any pair of integers will\
give you a valid position in the grid by "wrapping around" at the edges.\
\
(Hint:  programming will be a lot easier if you write helper functions that do\
the wrapping around for you, and use them in all your methods, so you don't\
have to think about it again.)\
\
There are two kinds of entities in this ocean:  sharks and fish.  The sharks\
and fish breed, eat, and die in the ocean.  Each cell of the grid can be\
occupied by a single shark or fish, or it can be empty.}